src/modules/readme_modules.md, before:

[TOP]: #section "Go to the top of the page"

### Section

Readme | [Changelog](../../changelog.md#section)

### Location
[frmwrk](../../README.md) / modules / 

# Modules

## Brief
[[TOP]]

## Integration
[[TOP]]

### Makefile


## Usage


## Structure
[[TOP]]

| Component                                           | Description                         |
|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| [LCD](../modules/lcd/readme/readme_lcd.md#section)  | Module to control LCD displays      |
| [IR](../modules/ir/readme/readme_ir.md#section)     | Module to control infrared devices  |
| [KEYPAD](../modules/keypad/readme/readme_keypad.md#section)  | Module to control a keypad |
| [MOVEMENT-DETECTION](../modules/movement_detection/readme/readme_movement_detection.md#section)  | Module to check if there is a moving object in front of the device |
| [CFG-FILE-PARSER](../modules/cfg_file_parser/readme/readme_cfg_file_parser.md#section)  | Module to load configuration values from afile and publish them via the signal-slot interface. |

## Runtime

Commit message:

NEW: mcu_top - new module to calculate and store task statistics

src/modules/readme_modules.md, after:

[TOP]: #section "Go to the top of the page"

### Section

Readme | [Changelog](../../changelog.md#section)

### Location
[frmwrk](../../README.md) / modules / 

# Modules

## Brief
[[TOP]]

## Integration
[[TOP]]

### Makefile


## Usage


## Structure
[[TOP]]

| Component                                           | Description                         |
|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| [LCD](../modules/lcd/readme/readme_lcd.md#section)  | Module to control LCD displays      |
| [IR](../modules/ir/readme/readme_ir.md#section)     | Module to control infrared devices  |
| [KEYPAD](../modules/keypad/readme/readme_keypad.md#section)  | Module to control a keypad |
| [MOVEMENT-DETECTION](../modules/movement_detection/readme/readme_movement_detection.md#section)  | Module to check if there is a moving object in front of the device |
| [CFG-FILE-PARSER](../modules/cfg_file_parser/readme/readme_cfg_file_parser.md#section)  | Module to load configuration values from afile and publish them via the signal-slot interface. |
| [MCU-TOP](../modules/mcu_top/readme/readme_mcu_top.md#section)  | Module to provide statistics of all task of the current system configuration. |

## Runtime
