src/modules/lcd/readme/readme_lcd.md, before:


### Location
[frmwrk](../../../../README.md) / [modules](../../readme_modules.md) / LCD

<br>
<br>

### Content

<details>
<summary> Click to open</summary>

[Brief](#brief)\
[Features](#features)\
[Integration](#integration)\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Makefile](#makefile)\
[Usage](#usage)\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Initialization](#initialization)\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Write text](#write-text)\
[Structure](#structure)\
[Runtime](#runtime)

</details>

<br>
<br>

# LCD

## Brief
[[TOP](#location)]

## Features
[[TOP](#features)]

The LCD-controller is used to write text on a connected LCD.
The LCD-Controller implements the LCD-interface.
This interface does not specify a definitve type of LCD.
This means there can be different implementations of the LCD-Controller.

## Integration
[[TOP](#location)]

### Makefile

The LCD-controller is integrated into a project by the Makefile. Depending on the type of LCD to use
the following line is added to the user-interface configuration. There is only support for a LCD with two lines and 16 characters per line available. This also causes the lcd-driver to be integrated into the project.

```Makefile
USER_INTERFACE_CFG += LCD_16X2
```

## Usage
[[TOP](#features)]

To use the LCD-controller the header file needs to be included. See below

```C
#include "modules/lcd/lcd_interface.h"
```

### Initialization

Befor the LCD can be used it needs to be initialized and enabled. See below.

```C
lcd_init();
lcd_set_enabled(LCD_ENABLE);
```

The LCD-controller can be disabled at runtime. In this case no updates of the LCD can be made anymore.
The LCD-controller needs to be enabled to be used. The LCD is not reseted or re-initialized if the
LCD-controller is enabled once again.

```C
lcd_set_enabled(LCD_DISABLE);
```
### Write Text

Text is transfered to the LCD-controller via the `SIGNAL_LCD_LINE`.
This signal is avaialble by including the header file, see [Usage](#usage).
THe signal does not has a timeout. It can be send as a burst. See example below.

```C
SIGNAL_LCD_LINE_send("This is Text 1");
SIGNAL_LCD_LINE_send("This is Text 2");
SIGNAL_LCD_LINE_send("This is Text 3");
SIGNAL_LCD_LINE_send("This is Text 4");
```

The LCD-Controller
will store up to `5` lines in a internal buffer. These lines will be written to the LCD
on executing the lcd-task. If all currently buffered lines have been written, the LCD-controller sends the 
 `SIGNAL_LCD_UPDATED` signal. You can connect to this signal to get informed of a finished operation.

## Structure
[[TOP](#location)]

![Structure](../../../modules/lcd/uml/img/rpi_control_frmwrk_diagram_component_lcd_controller.svg )

## Runtime
[[TOP](#location)]

![Runtime](../../../modules/lcd/uml/img/rpi_control_frmwrk_diagram_sequence_lcd_controller.svg )

Commit message:

MOD: readmed files - added a section menu-navigation

src/modules/lcd/readme/readme_lcd.md, after:

[TOP]: #section "Go to the top of the page"

### Section

Readme | [Changelog](../../../../changelog.md)

### Location
[frmwrk](../../../../README.md) / [modules](../../readme_modules.md) / LCD

<br>
<br>

### Content

<details>
<summary> Click to open</summary>

[Brief](#brief)\
[Features](#features)\
[Integration](#integration)\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Makefile](#makefile)\
[Usage](#usage)\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Initialization](#initialization)\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Write text](#write-text)\
[Structure](#structure)\
[Runtime](#runtime)

</details>

<br>
<br>

# LCD

## Brief
[[TOP]]

## Features
[[TOP]]

The LCD-controller is used to write text on a connected LCD.
The LCD-Controller implements the LCD-interface.
This interface does not specify a definitve type of LCD.
This means there can be different implementations of the LCD-Controller.

## Integration
[[TOP]]

### Makefile

The LCD-controller is integrated into a project by the Makefile. Depending on the type of LCD to use
the following line is added to the user-interface configuration. There is only support for a LCD with two lines and 16 characters per line available. This also causes the lcd-driver to be integrated into the project.

```Makefile
USER_INTERFACE_CFG += LCD_16X2
```

## Usage
[[TOP]]

To use the LCD-controller the header file needs to be included. See below

```C
#include "modules/lcd/lcd_interface.h"
```

### Initialization

Befor the LCD can be used it needs to be initialized and enabled. See below.

```C
lcd_init();
lcd_set_enabled(LCD_ENABLE);
```

The LCD-controller can be disabled at runtime. In this case no updates of the LCD can be made anymore.
The LCD-controller needs to be enabled to be used. The LCD is not reseted or re-initialized if the
LCD-controller is enabled once again.

```C
lcd_set_enabled(LCD_DISABLE);
```
### Write Text

Text is transfered to the LCD-controller via the `SIGNAL_LCD_LINE`.
This signal is avaialble by including the header file, see [Usage](#usage).
THe signal does not has a timeout. It can be send as a burst. See example below.

```C
SIGNAL_LCD_LINE_send("This is Text 1");
SIGNAL_LCD_LINE_send("This is Text 2");
SIGNAL_LCD_LINE_send("This is Text 3");
SIGNAL_LCD_LINE_send("This is Text 4");
```

The LCD-Controller
will store up to `5` lines in a internal buffer. These lines will be written to the LCD
on executing the lcd-task. If all currently buffered lines have been written, the LCD-controller sends the 
 `SIGNAL_LCD_UPDATED` signal. You can connect to this signal to get informed of a finished operation.

## Structure
[[TOP]]

![Structure](../../../modules/lcd/uml/img/rpi_control_frmwrk_diagram_component_lcd_controller.svg )

## Runtime
[[TOP]]

![Runtime](../../../modules/lcd/uml/img/rpi_control_frmwrk_diagram_sequence_lcd_controller.svg )
